# API with EDA **(R Studio)**

[API with EDA Project](https://bphigg.github.io/Project_2/){:target="_blank"}

[Project Repo](https://github.com/bphigg/Project_2){:target="_blank"}

For this project I wrote queries to pull data from the FREE NBA API from [rapidapi.com](https://rapidapi.com/theapiguy/api/free-nba). Once the data was retrieved, additional manipulation was used through R Studio and the tidyverse packages to create insightful EDA's. Given the nature of the data, sports stats, I wasn't expecting any eye raising insights but I did find the whole writing a function to query an API very insightful. 
<br>

I previously suspected that API queries would be rather messy, like casting a net in the general direction of data you are looking for and then figuring out the best way to sift through it. After this project, my suspicions were confirmed. This is not necessarily a bad thing. API repositories store vast amounts of data without any specific use in mind and I learned that it is up to the user to have a good idea as to what data they are searching for to help with their research or question. This general research idea will help the user filter through and find the relevant pieces.  
<br>

Overall, I thought this project was kind of grueling. Perhaps because I felt unlucky in my choice of API - a lot of hours went into the code to retrieve the desired data. Once I realized that there may be easier APIs to query, I was in too deep. But in the end, figuring out that coding was the best reward even though it limited my time on the remaining aspects of the project.
