# Exploratory Data Analysis  

Generally, when I encounter a data set I try to get an overall "feel" for the data. This includes its size and shape, its variables and categories. I look at the column names to get an idea of what is being measured/collected as well as the first 5-10 rows to identify the types of data and then try to get a vague idea of how the data in each column relates to the other columns. Once I believe I have an understanding of what the data represents, I'll conduct a few summary calculations and see if the results "make sense." Sometimes, the results are obvious and I can move on, but sometimes the results are unexpected and when that happens I'll do some more investigations to see if there is errant data or perhaps I misunderstood the data. This is never a waste of time, even when it's the latter because taking the time to see why the results were unexpected (or misunderstood) helps to gain a better understanding of the data. This stage is also when any missing values or outliers are identified and their impact on the data is evaluated.  

Once I have good "feel" for the data, I'll ask some very simple, broad questions regarding one or a couple aspects of it and run some graphs or some correlations and evaluate the results. Sometimes the results are very obvious, which is what I'm looking for and confirms that I have a good "feel" for the data. If, on the other hand, the results are unexpected (or outright impossible), that is a good indication that I still don't have a good grasp or more data cleanup is required.  

Overall, what I'm really hoping to get from an EDA is an understanding of the underlying structure and description of the data. Once I have this, I can then move on to thinking about the different approaches that can be taken to answering the question or questions at hand.
